While his servants were installing themselves and getting
things to rights, the gentleman had betaken himself to the
general parlour. Every traveller knows what these common
parlours are like: the same walls painted in oil colours,
darkened above by pipe-smoke, and covered below with the
marks made by the backs of travellers and tradespeople, for
merchants come here on market-days in sixes and sevens to
drink their customary two glasses of tea. There was the usual
smoke -begrimed ceiling, the same smoky chandelier with its
multitude of pendant glass drops, which leaped and jingled
every time the waiter ran across the worn oil- cloth, boldly
flourishing his tray, upon which stood well-nigh as many tea-
cups as there are birds on the seashore. Moreover, there were
the usual oil paintings on the walls ; in a word, everything was
exactly the same as what is found everywhere, the only differ-
ence being that one of the pictures represented a nymph with
such an enormous bosom as the reader has, in all probability,
never beheld. Such freaks of nature, however, occur in various
historical pictures, whence, at what time, and by whom brought
to us in Russia, is unknown, but sometimes by our grandees
and art-lovers, who have purchased them in Italy on the advice
of the couriers who conducted them.
The gentleman threw off his cap and unwound from his neck
a rainbow-hued woollen scarf, such as a wife prepares for her
husband with her own hands, giving it to him with suitable
instructions how to wrap himself up. Who makes these things
for bachelors no one can tell. God knows! For myself,
although a celibatarian, I have never worn such a scarf. Hav-
ing unwound his scarf, the gentleman ordered dinner. While
they served him with the various dishes usual at an inn, such
as cabbage soup with tarts, purposely kept for several weeks,
calfs brain*, with peas, small sausages with cabbage, roast
capon, pickled cucumbers, and the eternal sweet puff-paste tarts
which are always ready at one's service — while he was being
served with all these either warm or cold, he made the waiter